ROS 2 section [9292] (#194)
eProsima/Fast-RTPS-docs: docs/fastdds/ros2/Discovery_server/ros2_discovery_server.rst

    :align: center

In order to use this functionality, **Fast-DDS Discovery Server** can be set by parameters using
the :ref:`XML configuration for Participants <DS_setup_concepts>`.
However, Fast DDS library provides an easier way to set a **Discovery Server** communication using
the ``fastdds`` :ref:`CLI tool <ffastddscli_cli>` and an :ref:`environment variable <env_vars>`,
which are going to be used along this tutorial.
For a more detailed explanation about the configuration of the Discovery Server,
visit this docs :ref:`section <discovery_server>`.

Prerequisites
-------------

This tutorial assumes you have a `working Foxy ROS 2 installation <https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/>`__.
In case your installation is using a Fast DDS version lower than v2.0.2 you could not use the ``fastdds`` tool.
You could update your repository to use a different Fast DDS version,
or :ref:`set the discovery server by Fast-DDS XML QoS configuration <discovery_server>`.

The ``talker-listener`` ROS 2 demo allows to create a *talker* node that publishes a *Hello World* message every second,
and a *listener* node that listens to these messages.

> Run the demo

Reviewer: I think this is not the correct section level

For this purpose, run another node that is not connected to our Discovery Server.
Just run a new listener (listening in ``/chatter`` topic by default) in a new terminal and check that it is
not connected to the talker already running.

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=simple_listener

In this case, we should not see the listener receiving the messages.

To finally verify that everything is running correctly, a new talker can be created using the
*simple discovery protocol*.

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=simple_talker

Now we should see the listener *simple_listener* receiving the messages from *simple_talker* but not the other
messages from *talker_discovery_server*.

Visualization tool `rqt_graph`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The tool ``rqt_graph`` can be used to verify the nodes and structure of this example.
Remember, in order to use the ``rqt_graph`` with the *Discovery Server Protocol*
(i.e., to see the ``listener/talker_discovery_server``)
the environment variable ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` must be set beforehand.

> Advance user cases

Reviewer: Not correct section level

------------------

The following paragraphs are going to show different features of the Discovery Server
that allows to hold a robust structure over the node's network.

Server Redundancy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> By using the Fast DDS tool several servers can be created, and the nodes can be connected to as many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the Fast DDS tool, several servers can be created, and the nodes can be connected to as many
```

servers as desired. This allows to have a safe redundancy network that will work even if some servers or
nodes shut down unexpectedly.

> 
> Next schema shows a simple architecture that will work with server redundancy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next schema shows a simple architecture that will work with server redundancy:
```

.. image:: /01-figures/fast_dds/discovery/ds_redundancy_example.svg
    :align: center

> In different terminals, run the next code to establish a communication over a backup server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In different terminals, run the next code to establish a communication over redundant servers.
```

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11811

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 1 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11888

``-i N`` means server with id N. When referencing the servers with ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER``,
server ``0`` must be in first place and server ``1`` in second place.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

Now, if one of these servers fails, there would still be discovery communication between nodes.

Backup Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fast-DDS Discovery Server allows to easily build a server with a **backup** functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Fast DDS* Discovery Server allows to easily build a server with a **backup** functionality.
```

This allows the server to retake the last state it saved in case of a shutdown.

.. image:: /01-figures/fast_dds/discovery/ds_backup_example.svg
    :align: center

In different terminals, run the next code to establish a communication over a backup server.

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11811 -b

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

Several backup files are created in the path the server has run.
Two ``SQLite`` files and two ``json`` files that contains the information required to
raise a new server in case of failure, avoiding the whole discovery process to happen again and
without losing information.

Discovery partitions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The **Discovery Server** communication could be used with different servers to split in virtual
partitions the discovery info.
This means that two endpoints only would know each other if there is a server or a server network
between them.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11811

In another terminal run the second server listening in localhost in port another port, in this case 11888.

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 1 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11888

Now, run each node in a different terminal. Use the *environment variable* ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` to decide which
server they are connected to. Be aware that the `ids must match
<https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/env_vars/env_vars.html>`__.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker_1

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener_1

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker_2

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER=";127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener_2

> We should see how *Listener 1* is receiving double messages while *Listener 2* is in a different
> partition of *Talker 2* and so it does not listen it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should see how *Listener 1* is receiving double messages, while *Listener 2* is in a different
partition from *Talker 2* and so it does not listen to it.
```

.. note::

    Once two endpoints know each other, they do not need the server network between them to
    listen to each other messages.

Compare Discovery Server with Simple Discovery
-----------------------------------------------

> In order to compare the ROS2 execution using *Simple Discovery* or *Discovery Service*, we provide two scripts that
> execute a talker and many listeners and analyze the network traffic during this time. For this you will need to install
> ``tshark`` on your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to compare the ROS2 execution using *Simple Discovery* or *Discovery Service*, two scripts that
execute a talker and many listeners and analyze the network traffic during this time are provided.
For this experiment, ``tshark`` is required to be installed on your system.
```

> 
> However, this functionality are references for advance purpose and we are going to leave its studying to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These scripts' functionalities are references for advance purpose and their study is left to the user.
```

:download:`bash network traffic generator <generate_discovery_packages.bash>`

:download:`python3 graph generator <discovery_packets.py>`

Run the bash script with the *setup* path to source ROS2 as argument.
This will generate the traffic trace for simple discovery.
Executing the same script with second argument ``SERVER``, it will generates the trace for service discovery.

.. note::

>     Depending on your configuration of ``tcpdump`` this script may require ``sudo`` privileges to read traffic across

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Depending on your configuration of ``tcpdump``, this script may require ``sudo`` privileges to read traffic across
```

    your network device.

After both executions are done, run the python script to generates a graph similar to the one below:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo bash generate_discovery_packages.bash ~/ros2_foxy/install/local_setup.bash
    $ sudo bash generate_discovery_packages.bash ~/ros2_foxy/install/local_setup.bash SERVER
    $ python3 discovery_packets.py

.. image:: /01-figures/fast_dds/discovery/discovery_packets.svg
    :align: center

This graph is the result of a  is a specific example, the user can execute the scripts and watch their own results.
It can easily be seen how the network traffic is reduced when using *Discovery Service*.

The reduction in traffic is a result of avoiding every node announcing itself and waiting a response from every other
node in the net.
This creates a huge amount of traffic in large architectures.
This reduction from this method increases with the number of Nodes, making this architecture more scalable than the

> simple one.

Reviewer: I think it's worth mentioning in this section that, since v2.0.2, the traffic will be massively reduced when nodes do not share topics, which is not the case here.
